# ADHD

## Parent Inattention

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of inattention for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has difficulty sustaining attention, is easily distracted, makes careless mistakes, does not seem to listen when spoken to, has difficulty following instructions, has difficulty organizing tasks, avoids tasks requiring attention, loses belongings, and is forgetful in daily activities. The endorsed symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}} LIST DENIED SXES/BXES.

## Parent Hyperactivity

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of hyperactivity for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has difficulty remaining seated, fidgets, runs/climbs excessively, appears on the go, has trouble remaining quiet, acts impulsively, blurts out answers, has trouble waiting {{PRONOUN-2}} turn, interrupts others, and talks excessively. The endorsed symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}} LIST DENIED SXES/BXES.

## Child Inattention
{{CHILD-NAME}} self-reported symptoms of inattention. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has difficulty sustaining attention, is easily distracted, makes careless mistakes, does not seem to listen when spoken to, has difficulty following instructions, has difficulty organizing tasks, avoids tasks requiring attention, loses belongings, and is forgetful in daily activities.  

## Child Hyperactivity
{{CHILD-NAME} also reported symptoms of hyperactivity. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has difficulty remaining seated, fidgets, runs/climbs excessively, appears on the go, has trouble remaining quiet, acts impulsively, blurts out answers, has trouble waiting his/her turn, interrupts others, and talks excessively. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated the endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{CHILD-NAME}} denied that {{PRONOUN-0}} LIST DENIED SXES/BXES.

# Agoraphobia

## Parent
{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms related to agoraphobia for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} occasionally/frequently avoids buses, trains, subways, open spaces, bridges, shops, theaters, malls, crowds, standing in line, and being out of the house alone because they make {{PRONOUN-1}} anxious. {{CHILD-NAME}} is fearful that {{PRONOUN-0}} would not be able to leave quickly if {{PRONOUN-0}} wanted to, could not receive help quickly if something bad happened to {{PRONOUN-1}}, and {{PRONOUN-0}} might do something embarrassing. {{CHILD-NAME}}’s fear and avoidance of these situations is above and beyond that of same-aged peers. {{PARENT-NAME}} speculated that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} fear or avoidance of these places is mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and cause/however do not cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child
{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms related to agoraphobia. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that {{PRONOUN-0}} occasionally/frequently avoids buses, trains, subways, open spaces, bridges, shops, theaters, malls, crowds, standing in line, and being out of the house alone because they make {{PRONOUN-1}} anxious. {{CHILD-NAME}} is fearful that {{PRONOUN-0}} would not be able to leave quickly if {{PRONOUN-0}} wanted to, could not receive help quickly if something bad happened to {{PRONOUN-1}}, and {{PRONOUN-0}} might do something embarrassing. {{CHILD-NAME}}'s fear and avoidance of these situations is above and beyond that of same-aged peers. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} fear or avoidance of these places is mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that the endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and cause/however do not cause impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). 

# Alcohol Use

## Parent
{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} consumes alcohol, specifically beer, wine, vodka, gin, tequila, whiskey, rum, bourbon, scotch, and mixed drinks. {{PRONOUN-0}} drinks alcohol XX times per day/week/month alone/socially at parties, friends’ houses, clubs, and parks or other outdoor places. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s drinking has caused {{PRONOUN-1}} problems with parents, friends, at school, or at work, beginning at AGE/in MONTH YEAR. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} has frequently/often/occasionally/rarely drunk more than {{PRONOUN-0}} planned, gone to school/work after {{PRONOUN-0}} had been drinking or when {{PRONOUN-0}} was hungover, driven while drunk, engaged in dangerous behavior while drinking (e.g. {{!XX}} ), thrown up or had an accident and hurt {{PRONOUN-4}} when drunk, and experienced {{PRONOUN-2}} mood worsening. Additionally, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has frequently/often/occasionally/rarely craved a drink, spent more time drinking than engaging in usual activities at work/school, thought about wanting to cut back on {{PRONOUN-2}} alcohol use, tried to quit drinking but could not, had the shakes or other bad symptoms (e.g. {{!XX}} ) after cutting down on drinking, found that {{PRONOUN-0}} needed to drink more to experience intoxication, and spent a great deal of time trying to obtain or recover from the effects of alcohol.

## Child
{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} consumes alcohol, specifically beer, wine, vodka, gin, tequila, whiskey, rum, bourbon, scotch, and mixed drinks. {{PRONOUN-0}} drinks alcohol XX times per day/week/month alone/socially at parties, friends’ houses, clubs, and parks or other outdoor places. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-2}} drinking has caused {{PRONOUN-1}} problems with parents, friends, at school, or at work, beginning at AGE/in MONTH YEAR. {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} has frequently/occasionally drunk more than {{PRONOUN-0}} planned, gone to school/work after {{PRONOUN-0}} had been drinking or when {{PRONOUN-0}} was hungover, driven while drunk, engaged in dangerous behavior while drinking (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}),thrown up or had an accident and hurt {{PRONOUN-4}} when drunk, and experienced {{PRONOUN-2}} mood worsening. Additionally, {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} has frequently/occasionally craved a drink, spent more time drinking than engaging in usual activities at work/school, thought about wanting to cut back on {{PRONOUN-2}} alcohol use, tried to quit drinking but could not, had the shakes or other bad symptoms (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}) after cutting down on drinking, found that {{PRONOUN-0}} needed to drink more to experience intoxication, and spent a great deal of time trying to obtain or recover from the effects of alcohol. 

# Autism Spectrum

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} displays deficits in social communication and interactions. Regarding {{CHILD-NAME}}’s social-emotional reciprocity, {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits difficulty with back-and-forth conversations, struggles to recognize other’s emotions, asks socially inappropriate questions, engages in one-side verbosity, and rarely spontaneously shares interests or successes with others. {{PARENT-NAME}} also noted some challenges in forming and maintaining social relationships appropriate to {{PRONOUN-2}} developmental level. More specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} often prefers to interact with younger children, prefers to play alone, has difficulty sharing imaginative play, incessantly pursues contact with others, struggles to make friends, has difficulty reading social cues and has difficulty participating in group activities. Additionally, {{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed deficits in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s nonverbal communicative behaviors. That is, {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits poorly modulated eye contact, rarely uses gestures to enhance {{PRONOUN-2}} communication, and does not display a typical range of facial expressions. The endorsed deficits in social communication and interactions have been present since age {{!XX}} and cause/but do not cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, and at school. ANY DENIED SXES/BXES: {{PARENT-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}} demonstrates deficits in social emotional reciprocity, maintenance of social relationships or non-verbal communication. (Insert examples of {{CHILD-NAME}}’s social ability/strengths if available)

{{PARENT-NAME}} also endorsed concerns regarding restricted and repetitive behavior patterns for {{CHILD-NAME}}. Specifically, {{PRONOUN-0}} reportedly displays stereotyped speech patterns, including echolalia, poor voice modulation, repeating phrases {{PRONOUN-0}} heard in exactly the same way, mixing up pronouns, using scripted language and saying phrases from TV out of context. {{PARENT-NAME}} also endorsed repetitive and stereotyped motor movements for {{CHILD-NAME}} including flapping hands when {{PRONOUN-0}} is excited, walking on {{PRONOUN-2}} toes, flicking {{PRONOUN-2}} fingers, spinning, rocking, pacing in a pattern. Furthermore, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits inflexible adherence to routines, such as getting upset if not allowed to do X in a certain way, touching objects a particular way, extreme difficulties with transitions and changes in routine, resisting wearing new clothes. {{PARENT-NAME}} explained that they often work very hard to avoid changes in the schedule so as not to upset {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PARENT-NAME}} further reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits highly fixated interests that are abnormal in intensity and focus. For example, {{CHILD-NAME}} reportedly memorizes unusual facts regarding X, displays an intense interest in X, above and beyond peers, pays attention to only part of a toy, plays with objects that are not typically toys. {{PARENT-NAME}} also noted that {{CHILD-NAME}} displays hypo-/hyper-reactivity to sensory input (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}). The endorsed restricted patterns of behavior have been present since early childhood and cause/but do not cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, and at school. ANY DENIED SXES/BXES: {{PARENT-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}} demonstrates stereotyped or repetitive speech or movements, ritualized patterns of behavior, restricted interests, or hyper/hypo -reactivity to sensory stimuli. (Insert examples of {{CHILD-NAME}}’s adaptability if available)

# Bipolar Disorder

## Parent
{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} currently displays brief periods of heightened energy, which occur for a few minutes at a time several days of the week. During these periods, {{CHILD-NAME}} also displays increased goal directed activity, overly confident and risky behavior (e.g., attempting to use power tools around the home), rapid speech, racing thoughts, flight of ideas, agitation, and additional trouble with concentration. The endorsed symptoms cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family.
{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} also endorsed prior episodes of significantly increased energy for {{CHILD-NAME}}, which began 2-3 years ago and persisted for 3-4 days at a time. These episodes were accompanied by rapid speech, racing thoughts, flight of ideas, goal directed activity, agitation, additional trouble with concentration, and risky behavior.

## Child
{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} currently displays brief periods of heightened energy, which occur for a few minutes at a time several days of the week. During these periods, {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated {{PRONOUN-0}} also displays increased goal directed activity, overly confident and risky behavior (e.g., attempting to use power tools around the home), rapid speech, racing thoughts, flight of ideas, agitation, and additional trouble with concentration. The endorsed symptoms cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family.

{{CHILD-NAME}} also endorsed prior episodes of significantly increased energy for {{CHILD-NAME}}, which began 2-3 years ago and persisted for 3-4 days at a time. These episodes were accompanied by rapid speech, racing thoughts, flight of ideas, goal directed activity, agitation, additional trouble with concentration, and risky behavior. 

# Body Dysmorphic Symptoms

## Parent
{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed frequent/occasional symptoms related to preoccupation with perceived flaws in physical appearance for {{CHILD-NAME}}. More specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} reports {{!FILLIN}}, and {{PRONOUN-0}} believes {{PRONOUN-0}} is {{!FILLIN}}. Per {{PARENT-NAME}}, {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/occasionally engages in repetitive behaviors (i.e., checks {{PRONOUN-4}} in the mirror, grooms {{PRONOUN-4}}, and compares {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance with that of others) in response to {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance concerns. {{PARENT-NAME}} reported {{CHILD-NAME}} is aware/unaware of {{PRONOUN-2}} preoccupation with {{PRONOUN-2}} perceived flaw in physical appearance and {{PRONOUN-0}} is convinced {{PRONOUN-2}} beliefs are true. {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} preoccupation with {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance as mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}}, occurs approximately (include how much time child is engaged in repetitive behaviors) day/week/month, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child
{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed frequent/occasional symptoms related to preoccupation with perceived flaws in {{PRONOUN-2}} physical appearance. More specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} reports {{PRONOUN-2}} {{!FILLIN}}, and {{PRONOUN-0}} believes {{PRONOUN-0}} is {{!FILLIN}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/occasionally engages in repetitive behaviors (i.e., checks {{PRONOUN-4} in the mirror, grooms {{PRONOUN-4}}, and compares {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance with that of others) in response to {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance concerns.  {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated {{PRONOUN-0}} is aware/unaware of {{PRONOUN-2}} preoccupation with {{PRONOUN-2}} perceived flaw in physical appearance and {{PRONOUN-0}} is convinced {{PRONOUN-2}} beliefs are true. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} preoccupation with {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance as mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}}, occurs approximately (include how much time child is engaged in repetitive behaviors) day/week/month, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Conduct Disorder (Disruptive, Impulse-Control, and Conduct Disorder Behaviors)

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed behaviors related to poor impulse-control for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated that {{CHILD-NAME}} occasionally/frequently deliberately lies to con or manipulate others, is truant from school, gets into physical fights with others, threatens or bullies others, steals items of value, damages or vandalizes others’ property, breaks into or trespasses on others’ property, threatens/assaults and robs others, engages in fire setting with the intention of causing serious damage, stays out all night despite parental prohibitions, runs away from home, threatens/harms others with objects or weapons (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}), is physically cruel to others, forces others into sexual activity, and is physically cruel to animals. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). Of note, {{PARENT-NAME}} added that {{CHILD-NAME}} engages in these behaviors with a lack of remorse, a lack of empathy, is unconcerned about {{PRONOUN-2}} performance, and presents with shallow affect.

# Depression and Suicide or Self-Harm

## Mood Related Symptoms Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of depression for {{CHILD-NAME}}, including occasionally/frequently feeling sad, irritable, and bored for most of the day since DATE/AGE. {{PARENT-NAME}} also reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} sleeps more/less than usual, displays difficulty falling asleep, feels easily fatigued, has difficulty concentrating, has trouble making up {{PRONOUN-2}} mind, has been more/less hungry than usual, gained/lost weight, feels agitated/like {{PRONOUN-0}} is in slow motion, feels guilty, feels hopeless, and feels bad about {{PRONOUN-4}}. The endorsed symptoms were reported to have been present since age {{!XX}} and were reported to {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Mood Related Symptoms Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of depression, including occasionally/frequently feeling sad, irritable, and bored for most of the day since DATE/AGE. {{CHILD-NAME}} also reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} sleeps more/less than usual, feels easily fatigued, has difficulty concentrating, has trouble making up {{PRONOUN-2}} mind, has been more/less hungry than usual, gained/lost weight, feels agitated/like {{PRONOUN-0}} is in slow motion, feels guilty, feels hopeless, and feels bad about {{PRONOUN-4}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported the endorsed symptoms have been present from X to X and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Self-Harm or Suicidality Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of self-harm/suicidality for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} has DESCRIBE SELF-HARM BXES since age {{!XX}}, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has wished {{PRONOUN-0}} was dead or thought {{PRONOUN-0}} would be better off dead, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has seriously thought about wanting to kill {{PRONOUN-4}}, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has attempted to kill {{PRONOUN-4}} {{!XX}} times by DESCRIBE METHODS. {{CHILD-NAME}} believed {{PRONOUN-0}} had at least some chance of dying as a result. The last time {{CHILD-NAME}} attempted to kill {{PRONOUN-4}} was DATE OF LAST TIME. {{CHILD-NAME}} has/has not been previously hospitalized/treated for self-harm/suicidality.

## Self-Harm or Suicidality Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of self-harm/suicidality. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated {{PRONOUN-0}} DESCRIBE SELF-HARM BXES since age {{!XX}}, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has wished {{PRONOUN-0}} was dead or thought {{PRONOUN-0}} would be better off dead, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has seriously thought about wanting to kill {{PRONOUN-4}}, occurring approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. {{CHILD-NAME}} has attempted to kill {{PRONOUN-4}} {{!XX}} times by DESCRIBE METHODS. {{CHILD-NAME}} believed {{PRONOUN-0}} had at least some chance of dying as a result. The last time {{CHILD-NAME}} attempted to kill {{PRONOUN-4}} was DATE OF LAST TIME. 

# Disinhibited Social Engagement Disorder (DSED)

## Symptoms Related to Attachment Difficulties with Adoption

According to {{PARENT-NAME}}, {{CHILD-NAME}} was separated from {{PRONOUN-2}} biological mother/father at birth/XX months of age and was placed in foster care until {{PRONOUN-0}} was adopted by {{!FILLIN}} at XX year(s)/month(s) of age. {{CHILD-NAME}} resided in XX foster homes/institutions prior to being adopted. Reportedly, during {{CHILD-NAME}}’s time in foster/institutionalized care, {{PRONOUN-0}} experienced/did not experience social neglect and had/did not have limited opportunities to develop an attachment to a caregiver. From ages X to Y, {{CHILD-NAME}} often demonstrated atypical responses to unfamiliar adults. That is, {{PRONOUN-0}} often lacked age-appropriate reticence in approaching or interacting with unfamiliar adults, exhibited overly familiar verbal or physical behavior (e.g., give hugs, share personal information, and ask personal questions), departed with unfamiliar adults, and would not check back with {{PRONOUN-2}} caregivers after venturing away.

# Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder (DMDD)

According to {{PARENT-NAME}}, {{CHILD-NAME}}’s mood is persistently irritable/angry/sad. {{CHILD-NAME}} consistently exhibits temper outbursts since age {{!XX}} in response to DESCRIBE TRIGGERS. During these outbursts, {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally DESCRIBE BXES. These outbursts occur at/in DESCRIBE SETTINGS, approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month, and last between {{!XX}} and {{!XX}} minutes/hours. {{CHILD-NAME}}’s difficulties with regulating {{PRONOUN-2}} mood {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} noted that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s mood is persistently irritable/angry/sad/euthymic between recurrent outbursts.

# Eating Bxes

## Maladaptive Eating Habits Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed recurrent episodes of excessive/restricted eating for {{CHILD-NAME}}, including worrying all the time about {{PRONOUN-2}} weight or becoming fat, making {{PRONOUN-4}} throw up approximately X per week, attempting to control {{PRONOUN-2}} weight (e.g., exercising excessively, restricting what {{PRONOUN-0}} ate, taking laxatives/diet pills/water pills, eating minimal calories), and engaging in eating binges when {{PRONOUN-0}} lost control of {{PRONOUN-2}} eating and ate more than needed to because {{PRONOUN-0}} was unable to stop {{PRONOUN-4}}. These behaviors occur {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year and started when {{CHILD-NAME}} was {{!XX}} years old. During a binge eating episode, {{PARENT-NAME}}/{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} eats much more rapidly than normal, eats until {{PRONOUN-0}} is uncomfortable and {{PRONOUN-0}} feels too full, eats a lot even though {{PRONOUN-0}} is not hungry, eats alone because {{PRONOUN-0}} is embarrassed, feels disgusted or guilty after binge eating, feels depressed after binge eating, and feels like {{PRONOUN-0}} has no control when {{PRONOUN-0}} binge eats. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} binge eating as as mild/moderate/severe. 

## Maladaptive Eating Habits Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed recurrent episodes of excessive/restricted eating, including worrying all the time about {{PRONOUN-2}} weight or becoming fat, making {{PRONOUN-4}} throw up approximately X per week, attempting to control {{PRONOUN-2}} weight (e.g., exercising excessively, restricting what {{PRONOUN-0}} ate, taking laxatives/diet pills/water pills, eating minimal calories), and engaging in eating binges when {{PRONOUN-0}} lost control of {{PRONOUN-2}} eating and ate more than needed to because {{PRONOUN-0}} was unable to stop {{PRONOUN-4}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} reports these behaviors occur {{!FILLIN}} times per day/week/month/year and started when {{PRONOUN-0}} was XX years old. During a binge eating episode, {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} eats much more rapidly than normal, eats until {{PRONOUN-0}} is uncomfortable and {{PRONOUN-0}} feels too full, eats a lot even though {{PRONOUN-0}} is not hungry, eats alone because {{PRONOUN-0}} is embarrassed, feels disgusted or guilty after binge eating, feels depressed after binge eating, and feels like {{PRONOUN-0}} has no control when {{PRONOUN-0}} binge eats. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} binge eating as mild/moderate/severe.  

## Binge-Eating Disorder

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed recurrent episodes of excessive eating for {{CHILD-NAME}}, accompanied by feeling a loss of control while eating, these episodes are associated with following symptoms: eating large amounts of food when not physically hungry, eating much more rapidly than normal, eating until feeling uncomfortably full, eating alone because of feeling embarrassed by how much {{PRONOUN-0}} is eating, and feeling depressed and guilty afterward. ({{PARENT-NAME}} reported/denied that these behaviors have been associated with noticeable weight gain). Additionally, it was reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} experiences significant distress associated with binge eating. The endorsed behaviors have occurred approximately once per week for over 3 months and were reported to have begun in (add date). Of note, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} denied that {{PRONOUN-0}} engages in any compensatory/purging behaviors (e.g., self-induced vomiting, excessive exercise, or misuse of laxatives, diuretics or other medications) after these episodes.

# Pica

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed eating of nonnutritive and nonfood substance for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PRONOUN-0}} occasionally/frequently (describe specific behavior). The endorsed symptom(s) for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}} and cause/does not cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} reported {{CHILD-NAME}}’s (specific behavior) is not attributable to a culturally supported or socially normative practice.

# Enuresis and Encopresis

## Enuresis

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has daytime and/or nighttime bedwetting accidents (i.e., approximately xx times per week). The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and are not attributable to any illness or medications. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} urination accidents as mild/moderate/severe . {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that these symptoms {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Encopresis

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has daytime and/or nighttime soiling accidents (i.e., approximately xx times per month). The accidents do/do not occur in the context of constipation with overflow incontinence. The endorsed symptoms have been present since an early age (age {{!XX}}) and are not attributable to any illness or medications. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} soiling accidents as mild/moderate/severe . {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that these symptoms {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Excoriation (Skin Picking)

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely picks the skin around {{PRONOUN-2}} fingers, toes, and hands, frequently/often/occasionally/rarely resulting in open wounds, lesions, scars, and bleeding. {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated {{CHILD-NAME}} has been asked by others to stop, and {{PRONOUN-0}} will cease briefly, but shortly reengages in this behavior. These behaviors become more frequent when {{CHILD-NAME}} feels stressed or anxious. These symptoms occur multiple times per day/week/month, have been present since age {{!XX}}, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Gender Dysphoria Related Symptoms

## Child

{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of gender dysphoria, including occasionally/frequently feeling an incongruence between {{PRONOUN-2}} expressed gender/gender identity and assigned gender, a strong desire or insistence to be of the other gender, a strong preference for wearing clothes typical consistent with gender identity or a resistance to wear clothes typical for the assigned gender, a strong preference for cross-gender roles in make-believe play or fantasy play, a strong preference for toys/games or activities stereotypically used by the other gender, a strong preference for playmates of the other gender, a strong dislike for {{PRONOUN-2}} sexual anatomy, and a strong desire for the primary and/or secondary sex characteristics matching {{PRONOUN-2}} expressed gender /gender identity. The endorsed symptoms were reported to have been present since age {{!XX}} and were reported to {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Adolescents and Adults:

{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of gender dysphoria, including occasionally/frequently feeling an incongruence between {{PRONOUN-2}} expressed gender/gender identity and assigned gender, a marked incongruence between {{PRONOUN-2}} expressed gender/gender identity and primary and/or secondary sex characteristics (or in young adolescents, the anticipated secondary sex characteristics), a strong desire to get rid of {{PRONOUN-2}} primary and/or secondary sex characteristics (or in young adolescents, a desire to prevent the development of the anticipated secondary sex characteristics), a strong desire for the primary and/or secondary characteristics of the other gender, a strong desire to be the other gender, a strong desire to be treated as the other gender, and a strong conviction {{PRONOUN-0}} has the typical feelings and reactions of the other gender . The endorsed symptoms were reported to have been present since age {{!XX}} and were reported to {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} described {{CHILD-NAME}} as a occasional/frequent worrier and endorsed occasional/frequent uncontrollable worries about a variety of topics for {{CHILD-NAME}}, including {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance, academic or social performance, what {{PRONOUN-0}} said, how {{PRONOUN-0}} did on a test, if others like {{PRONOUN-1}}, the future, and the past. {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated that these symptoms are accompanied by frequent restlessness, feeling keyed up, being easily tired, poor concentration, mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, and difficulty falling asleep. {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} uncontrollable worries as mild/moderate/severe . The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} described {{PRONOUN-4}} as a occasional/frequent worrier and endorsed occasional/frequent uncontrollable worries about a variety of topics, including {{PRONOUN-2}} appearance, what {{PRONOUN-0}} said, how {{PRONOUN-0}} did on a test, if others like {{PRONOUN-1}}, the future, and the past.  {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that these symptoms are accompanied by frequent restlessness, feeling keyed up, being easily tired, poor concentration, mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, and difficulty falling asleep.  {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} uncontrollable worries as mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported the endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). 


## Internet and Gaming Use

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has persistently and recurrently used the internet to engage in gaming since (DATE/AGE). {{PARENT-NAME}} has set limits on the amount of time {{CHILD-NAME}} engages in gaming, however {{PRONOUN-0}} continues to game past these limits. For example, on school days {{PRONOUN-0}} is allowed X hour(s) of gaming, but watches others game on television after completing one hour of gaming. In addition, {{PRONOUN-0}} is allowed X hour(s) on weekends, but then goes to friends’ houses where {{PRONOUN-0}} does more gaming. In addition, {{CHILD-NAME}} has reportedly deceived {{PRONOUN-2}} parents about his gaming. {{CHILD-NAME}}’s parents have not allowed X as a means to limit {{PRONOUN-2}} gaming, and {{PRONOUN-0}} has become angry/irritable/sad in response to these rules. {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has lost interest in other activities due to gaming, and believes {{PRONOUN-0}} uses it as an escape. As a consequence of his gaming, {{PRONOUN-2}} academic performance and participation in X has declined.

# Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD)

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms related to obsessive thoughts for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} has intrusive thoughts or images about harming others or doing something horrible when {{PRONOUN-0}} did not want to; unwanted or upsetting sexual thoughts; meaningless words, numbers, or images that intrude into {{PRONOUN-2}} mind that {{PRONOUN-0}} cannot get rid of, religious thoughts that are disrespectful or offensive; thoughts that things had to be lined up exactly right or done a special way; worries about throwing seemingly unimportant things away; and thoughts about dirt, germs or contamination. {{CHILD-NAME}} tries to ignore the thoughts or do something to make them less stressful for {{PRONOUN-1}} and spends a great deal of time each day thinking about these thoughts (i.e., approximately {{!XX}} hours per day). {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} obsessive thoughts as mild/moderate/severe . The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} attempts to suppress or neutralize these thoughts with minimal success.

{{CHILD-NAME}} engages in excessive or ritualized cleaning of household or other items; excessive hand washing; excessive or ritualized showering, bathing, tooth brushing, or toilet routine; ordering or arranging things a certain way; checking something over and over; touching things a certain way; needing to count and recount; moving in a certain way or repeating certain actions; and mentally repeating certain words or numbers. {{CHILD-NAME}} reportedly engages in these behaviors to reduce {{PRONOUN-2}} anxiety, to prevent {{PRONOUN-4}} from becoming anxious, and to prevent something bad from happening, and spends a great deal of time each day engaging in these behaviors (e.g., approximately {{!XX}} hours per day). {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} compulsive behaviors as mild/moderate/severe . The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} attempts to suppress or neutralize these behaviors with minimal success.

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} self-reported symptoms related to obsessive thoughts. {{CHILD-NAME}} has intrusive thoughts or images about harming others or doing something horrible when {{PRONOUN-0}} did not want to; unwanted or upsetting sexual thoughts; meaningless words, numbers, or images that intrude into {{PRONOUN-2}} mind that {{PRONOUN-0}} cannot get rid of, religious thoughts that are disrespectful or offensive; thoughts that things had to be lined up exactly right or done a special way; worries about throwing seemingly unimportant things away; and thoughts about dirt, germs or contamination. {{CHILD-NAME}} tries to ignore the thoughts or do something to make them less stressful for {{PRONOUN-1}} and spends a great deal of time each day thinking about these thoughts (i.e., approximately {{!FILLIN}} hours per day). {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} obsessive thoughts as mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported the obsessive thoughts have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} attempts to suppress or neutralize these thoughts with minimal success.

{{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} engages in excessive or ritualized cleaning of household or other items; excessive hand washing; excessive or ritualized showering, bathing, tooth brushing, or toilet routine; ordering or arranging things a certain way; checking something over and over; touching things a certain way; needing to count and recount; moving in a certain way or repeating certain actions; and mentally repeating certain words or numbers. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported {{PRONOUN-0}} engages in these behaviors to reduce {{PRONOUN-2}} anxiety, to prevent {{PRONOUN-4}} from becoming anxious, and to prevent something bad from happening, and spends a great deal of time each day engaging in these behaviors (e.g., approximately {{!FILLIN}} hours per day). {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} compulsive behaviors as mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported the compulsive behaviors have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} attempts to suppress or neutralize these behaviors with minimal success.

# Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD)

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms of oppositional and defiant behaviors for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely talks back or argues with parents and teachers and other adults, refuses to comply with requests from adults, becomes easily annoyed, loses {{PRONOUN-2}} temper, feels angry or resentful towards others, intentionally retaliates against others, intentionally annoys others, and blames others for {{PRONOUN-2}} own mistakes. Of note, these behaviors do not occur exclusively within the context of a temper outburst. The endorsed symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}} and cause/but do not cause impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Panic Disorder

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed symptoms related to panic for {{CHILD-NAME}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} experiences shortness of breath, dizziness, heart palpitations, shaking, sweating, choking, nausea, feeling that things are not real, numbness, heat or chills, chest pain, fear of dying, and fear of losing control. The endorsed symptoms occur {{!XX}} times per day/week/month and last between {{!XX}} to {{!XX}} minutes/hours. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely worries about having another attack or about something bad happening because of these attacks. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely does not go out, goes out less often, or does anything else differently because of the attacks. These symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}}, are not related to substance use, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed symptoms related to panic. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported {{PRONOUN-0}} experiences shortness of breath, dizziness, heart palpitations, shaking, sweating, choking, nausea, feeling that things are not real, numbness, heat or chills, chest pain, fear of dying, and fear of losing control. The endorsed symptoms occur {{!FILLIN}} times per day/week/month and last between {{!FILLIN}} to {{!FILLIN}} minutes/hours. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/occasionally worries about having another attack or about something bad happening because of these attacks. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/occasionally does not go out, goes out less often, or does anything else differently because of the attacks. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported these symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}}, are not related to substance use, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). 

# Perceptual Distortions/Disturbances

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed the presence of current/past auditory/visual hallucinations/delusions, or perceptual distortions, for {{CHILD-NAME}}. Specifically, DESCRIBE EXPERIENCES. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that this occurs XX times per day/week/month, began in MONTH DATE, and occur within the setting of {{PRONOUN-2}} home, school, and other places. Both {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed/denied any related distress or impairment from these perceptual distortions.

# Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} was exposed to a traumatic event/traumatic events. [Describe the event which includes how/when the child was exposed to the event]. Since then, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} experiences intrusive symptoms associated with the event. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has gotten very upset when {{PRONOUN-0}} thought about the event/events, has nightmares, finds {{PRONOUN-4}} thinking about the event/events even when {{PRONOUN-0}} did not want to, has flashbacks, has gotten anxious and distressed when {{PRONOUN-0}} heard or saw or smelled things that reminded {{PRONOUN-1}} of the event/events, has gotten nauseous or had {{PRONOUN-2}} heart pound or race when {{PRONOUN-0}} saw or heard or smelled things that reminded {{PRONOUN-1}} of what happened, {{CHILD-NAME}} also reportedly displays avoidance of stimuli associated with the event. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally avoids thinking about the event/events and avoids external reminders of what happened (i.e., people, places, conversations). {{CHILD-NAME}} reportedly began to display negative alterations in {{PRONOUN-2}} cognition and mood. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/ occasionally has trouble remembering some of the event/events or details about what happened, feels that {{PRONOUN-0}} is a bad person or the world was an unsafe place, it was {{PRONOUN-2}} fault that the event/events happened, {{PRONOUN-0}} is damaged because of what happened, negative emotions (e.g., anger, guilt, shame, or fear), alone and like {{PRONOUN-0}} could not trust other people, {{PRONOUN-0}} could not feel positive emotions like happiness or love, and {{PRONOUN-0}} has been more cranky and irritable. Additionally, {{CHILD-NAME}} demonstrates alterations in {{PRONOUN-2}} arousal and reactivity since the event(s). {{CHILD-NAME}} has frequently/ occasionally had angry outbursts toward others, done reckless things, found {{PRONOUN-4}} on guard and on the lookout for danger, jumped and felt startled when {{PRONOUN-0}} heard a loud unexpected noise, had trouble concentrating, had trouble sleeping and felt {{PRONOUN-2}} sleep was restless. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s discomfort or distress related to these symptoms in response to experiencing a traumatic event/traumatic events as mild/moderate/severe . These endorsed symptoms have been present since the event/events occurred at age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} was exposed to a traumatic event/traumatic events. [Describe the event which includes how/when the child was exposed to the event]. Since then, {{CHILD-NAME}} stated {{PRONOUN-0}} experiences intrusive symptoms associated with the event. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally has gotten very upset when {{PRONOUN-0}} thought about the event/events, has nightmares, finds {{PRONOUN-4}} thinking about the event/events even when {{PRONOUN-0}} did not want to, has flashbacks, has gotten anxious and distressed when {{PRONOUN-0}} heard or saw or smelled things that reminded {{PRONOUN-1}} of the event/events, has gotten nauseous or had {{PRONOUN-2}} heart pound or race when {{PRONOUN-0}} saw or heard or smelled things that reminded {{PRONOUN-1}} of what happened, {{CHILD-NAME}} also reportedly displays avoidance of stimuli associated with the event. {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally avoids thinking about the event/events and avoids external reminders of what happened (i.e., people, places, conversations). {{CHILD-NAME}} reportedly began to display negative alterations in {{PRONOUN-2}} cognition and mood. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/ occasionally has trouble remembering some of the event/events or details about what happened, feels that {{PRONOUN-0}} is a bad person or the world was an unsafe place, it was {{PRONOUN-2}} fault that the event/events happened, {{PRONOUN-0}} is damaged because of what happened, negative emotions (e.g., anger, guilt, shame, or fear), alone and like {{PRONOUN-0}} could not trust other people, {{PRONOUN-0}} could not feel positive emotions like happiness or love, and {{PRONOUN-0}} has been more cranky and irritable. Additionally, {{CHILD-NAME}} reported alterations in {{PRONOUN-2}} arousal and reactivity since the event(s). {{CHILD-NAME}} has frequently/ occasionally had angry outbursts toward others, done reckless things, found {{PRONOUN-4}} on guard and on the lookout for danger, jumped and felt startled when {{PRONOUN-0}} heard a loud unexpected noise, had trouble concentrating, had trouble sleeping and felt {{PRONOUN-2}} sleep was restless. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} discomfort or distress related to these symptoms in response to experiencing a traumatic event/traumatic events as mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated these endorsed symptoms have been present since the event/events occurred at age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Reactive Attachment Disorder (RAD)

## Symptoms Related to Attachment Difficulties with Adoption

According to {{PARENT-NAME}}, {{CHILD-NAME}} was separated from {{PRONOUN-2}} biological mother/father at birth/XX months of age and was placed in foster care until {{PRONOUN-0}} was adopted by {{!FILLIN}} at XX year(s)/month(s) of age. {{CHILD-NAME}} resided in XX foster homes/institutions prior to being adopted. Reportedly, during {{CHILD-NAME}}’s time in foster/institutionalized care, {{PRONOUN-0}} experienced/did not experience social neglect and had/did not have limited opportunities to develop an attachment to a caregiver. At age {{!XX}}, {{CHILD-NAME}} began to exhibit episodes of unexplained irritability/sadness/fear while caregivers were interacting with {{PRONOUN-1}} in a nonthreatening manner. {{PRONOUN-0}} also displayed limited positive affect, as well as minimal social and emotional responsiveness to others. From ages X to Y, {{CHILD-NAME}} reportedly often reacted with severe temper outbursts and aggressive behaviors when distressed rather than seeking comfort. {{CHILD-NAME}}’s caregivers and service providers were often unable to comfort {{PRONOUN-1}}. Since age {{!XX}}, {{PRONOUN-2}} temper outbursts have occasionally resulted in hospitalizations/injuries, and {{PRONOUN-0}} continues to have significant social, emotional and behavioral difficulties at the present time.

# Selective Mutism

## Current

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed a consistent failure, inability, or unwillingness to speak in social situations for {{CHILD-NAME}} in which {{CHILD-NAME}} is expected to speak. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} would refuse to speak in DESCRIBE SETTINGS/PROVIDE EXAMPLES. {{PARENT-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s inability to speak was attributable to a language barrier. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Improved from Past

{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} both endorsed past consistent failure to speak in social situations in which {{CHILD-NAME}} is expected to speak. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} would refuse to speak at certain times in school and at home. When offered to audio record {{PRONOUN-2}} voice and answer to present in class, {{CHILD-NAME}} would refuse also. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} noted that {{CHILD-NAME}} was previously diagnosed with Selective Mutism in 8th grade, but these symptoms have been present since 3rd grade and have interfered with {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning at home and in school. For instance, {{PARENT-NAME}} recalled that {{CHILD-NAME}} attended an interview for high school in 8th grade and refused to speak during the interview. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} denied that {{PRONOUN-2}} inability to speak was attributable to a language barrier. Both {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} acknowledged that {{CHILD-NAME}} has made noted improvements with {{PRONOUN-2}} ability to speak in social situations. While {{CHILD-NAME}} continues to refuse to speak at times in some social situations today, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} noted it is of much less frequency (i.e., one to two times every other week) compared to the past (i.e., from 3rd to 8th grade, consistently refused to speak in school nearly every day).

# Sensory and Motor Difficulties (not re: ASD)

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported hyper-sensitivity to auditory input (e.g., hearing people eat or chew), or symptoms relate d to “misophonia” as described by {{CHILD-NAME}}’s parent. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits strong emotional and physical reactions in response to hearing or seeing others eat and chew (e.g., screams, yells “stop”, bangs hands on surface). {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress or discomfort related to {{PRONOUN-2}} sensory sensitivity as mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in other places or times (e.g., restaurant, public settings). For example, {{!FILLIN}}. {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that this has contributed to {{PRONOUN-2}} difficulties sustaining focus and attention in class.

# Separation Anxiety

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported symptoms of separation anxiety for {{CHILD-NAME}}, above and beyond that of same-aged peers, including occasionally/frequently feeling upset when {{PARENT-NAME}} left the house or dropped {{CHILD-NAME}} off somewhere, has tried to stay home from school just to be with {{PARENT-NAME}}, and has actually stayed home from school just to be with {{PARENT-NAME}}. {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely worries about something bad happening that would separate {{PRONOUN-1}} from {{PARENT-NAME}}, including fears about being kidnapped, something else bad happening to {{CHILD-NAME}} or {{PARENT-NAME}}, and {{PARENT-NAME}} getting hurt. {{PARENT-NAME}} also endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely is fearful/is reluctant/refuses to be in a different part of the house than {{PARENT-NAME}}, needs {{PARENT-NAME}} to be nearby to fall asleep at night, has nightmares about being separated, and experiences somatic complaints (e.g., headaches, stomachaches) when separated or anticipating separation. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s discomfort or distress related to separating from caregivers as mild/moderate/severe. These symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} reported symptoms of separation anxiety, above and beyond that of same-aged peers, including occasionally/frequently feeling upset when {{PARENT-NAME}} left the house or dropped {{PRONOUN-1}} off somewhere, has tried to stay home from school just to be with {{PARENT-NAME}}, and has actually stayed home from school just to be with {{PARENT-NAME. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally worries about something bad happening that would separate {{PRONOUN-1}} from {{PARENT-NAME}}, including fears about being kidnapped, something else bad happening to {{PRONOUN-1}} or {{PARENT-NAME}}, and {{PARENT-NAME}} getting hurt. {{CHILD-NAME}}  endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally is fearful/is reluctant/refuses to be in a different part of the house than {{PARENT-NAME}}, needs {{PARENT-NAME}} to be nearby to fall asleep at night, has nightmares about being separated, and experiences somatic complaints (e.g., headaches, stomachaches) when separated or anticipating separation. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} discomfort or distress related to separating from caregivers as mild/moderate/severe. These symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Sleep Difficulties

## Sleep Related Difficulties Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed sleep difficulties for {{CHILD-NAME}}, including trouble falling asleep/staying asleep. Specifically, DESCRIBE SLEEP BXES/BEDTIMES/ROUTINE. The endorsed symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}}, occurs {{!XX}} times per night/week/month, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in other places or times (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}). {{PARENT-NAME}} denied {{CHILD-NAME}} having any difficulties falling asleep/staying asleep.

## Sleep Related Difficulties Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed sleep difficulties, including trouble falling asleep/staying asleep. Specifically, DESCRIBE SLEEP BXES/BEDTIMES/ROUTINE. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported the endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}}, occur {{!FILLIN}} times per night/week/month, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in other places or times (e.g., {{!FILLIN}})

## Sleep Disturbance- Sleep Walking

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed frequent/occasional/infrequent recurrent episodes of incomplete awakening from sleep. Specifically, {{CHILD-NAME}} rises from bed during sleep and walks about, has a blank face or staring face while sleepwalking, is unresponsive to efforts of others to communicate with {{CHILD-NAME}}, and can be awakened only with great difficulty. Additionally, {{CHILD-NAME}} has little or no recollection of {{PRONOUN-2}} dreams, and/or {{PRONOUN-0}} does not recall the sleepwalking episode. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s discomfort or distress related to sleepwalking as mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} have been present since age {{!XX}} occurs {{!XX}} time(s) per night/week/month, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in other places or times (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}).

# Social Anxiety

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} is frequently/ occasionally/rarely shy, uncomfortable, fearful, or avoidant of social performance settings, including talking in class, going to parties, giving oral presentations, going up to the board, eating in front of others, using public bathrooms, changing in front of others, talking in any social situation, and conversing with unfamiliar individuals, above and beyond that of same-aged peers. In these settings, {{PARENT-NAME}} noted that {{PRONOUN-0}} believes {{CHILD-NAME}} fears that others will see {{PRONOUN-1}} as anxious, others will think badly of {{PRONOUN-1}}, {{PRONOUN-0}} will be embarrassed or humiliated, {{PRONOUN-0}} will be rejected, and {{PRONOUN-0}} will offend someone. {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s discomfort or distress related to {{PRONOUN-2}} anxiety in social situations as mild/moderate/severe . The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} is frequently/occasionally shy, uncomfortable or fearful of social performance settings, including talking in class, going to parties, giving oral presentations, going up to the board, eating in front of others, using public bathrooms, changing in front of others, talking in any social situation, and conversing with unfamiliar individuals, above and beyond that of same-aged peers. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally attempts to avoid these settings/ and or endures them with great distress. In these settings, {{CHILD-NAME}} noted that {{PRONOUN-0}}  fears that others will see {{PRONOUN-1}} as anxious, others will think badly of {{PRONOUN-1}}, {{PRONOUN-0}} will be embarrassed or humiliated, {{PRONOUN-0}} will be rejected, and {{PRONOUN-0}} will offend someone. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} discomfort or distress related to {{PRONOUN-2}} anxiety in social situations as mild/moderate/severe. The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times). 

# Specific Phobia

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} has a fear of SPECIFIC PHOBIA, above and beyond that of same-aged peers. {{PARENT-NAME}} noted that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely avoids PLACE OF PHOBIA and experiences related distress (i.e., BXES, SXES) when exposed to this stimulus. {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress related to {{PRONOUN-2}} phobia as mild/moderate/severe . The endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and (fill in other places or times).

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} has a fear of SPECIFIC PHOBIA, above and beyond that of same-aged peers. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally avoids PLACE OF PHOBIA and experiences related distress (i.e., BXES, SXES) when exposed to this stimulus. {{CHILD-NAME}} rated {{PRONOUN-2}} distress related to {{PRONOUN-2}} phobia as mild/moderate/severe. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated the endorsed symptoms have been present since age {{!XX}} and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and (fill in other places or times). 

# Substance Use

## Parent

{{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} has used substance, specifically marijuana, stimulants, sedatives/hypnotics/anxiolytics, cocaine, opioids, hallucinogens, tobacco, and solvents/inhalants. {{PRONOUN-0}} uses these substances XX times per day/week/month alone/socially at parties, friends’ houses, clubs, and parks or other outdoor places. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s substance use has caused {{PRONOUN-1}} problems with parents, friends, at school, or at work, beginning at AGE/in MONTH YEAR. As a result of {{PRONOUN-2}} substance use, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely feels sick (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}), misses school/work, and gets into arguments or problems with parents/friends/coworkers. Over time, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely finds {{PRONOUN-4}} using more of THE SUBSTANCE(S) than planned, going to work/school after using, driving after using, engaging in dangerous behaviors after using (e.g., {{!XX}}), throwing up or accidentally hurting {{PRONOUN-4}} after using, and experiencing {{PRONOUN-2}} mood worsening after using. Additionally, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} has frequently/often/occasionally/rarely craved substances, spent more time using substances than engaging in usual activities at work/school, thought about wanting to cut back on {{PRONOUN-2}} substance use, tried to quit using substances but could not, had the shakes or other bad symptoms (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}) after cutting down on using substances, found that {{PRONOUN-0}} needed to use more to experience a high/intoxication, and spent a great deal of time trying to obtain or recover from the effects of using substances within the last XX months. {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that {{CHILD-NAME}} has/has never had a period of 3 months or longer without using substances since {{PRONOUN-0}} started using.

## Child

{{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} has used substances, specifically marijuana, stimulants, sedatives/hypnotics/anxiolytics, cocaine, opioids, hallucinogens, tobacco, and solvents/inhalants. {{PRONOUN-0}} uses these substances XX times per day/week/month alone/socially at parties, friends’ houses, clubs, and parks or other outdoor places. {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-2}} substance use has caused {{PRONOUN-1}} problems with parents, friends, at school, or at work, beginning at AGE/in MONTH YEAR. As a result of {{PRONOUN-2}} substance use, {{CHILD-NAME}} endorsed that {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally feels sick (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}), misses school/work, and gets into arguments or problems with parents/friends/coworkers. Over time, {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} frequently/occasionally finds {{PRONOUN-4}} using more of THE SUBSTANCE(S) than planned, going to work/school after using, driving after using, engaging in dangerous behaviors after using (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}), throwing up or accidentally hurting {{PRONOUN-4}} after using, and experiencing {{PRONOUN-2}} mood worsening after using. Additionally, {{CHILD-NAME}} reported that {{PRONOUN-0}} has frequently /occasionally craved substances, spent more time using substances than engaging in usual activities at work/school, thought about wanting to cut back on {{PRONOUN-2}} substance use, tried to quit using substances but could not, had the shakes or other bad symptoms (e.g., {{!FILLIN}}) after cutting down on using substances, found that {{PRONOUN-0}} needed to use more to experience a high/intoxication, and spent a great deal of time trying to obtain or recover from the effects of using substances within the last XX months. {{CHILD-NAME}} indicated that {{PRONOUN-0}} has/has never had a period of 3 months or longer without using substances since {{PRONOUN-0}} started using. 

# Temper Outbursts

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}}’s typical mood is XX, but endorsed that {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibits temper outbursts in response to denied requests, undesirable directives, transitions, (include other specifics). During these outbursts, {{CHILD-NAME}} screams, yells, cries, throws objects, uses inappropriate language, punches, hits, kicks, bites, slams doors, bangs hits his head. The outbursts have been present since age X, typically last between {{!XX}} to {{!XX}} minutes/hours, and occur approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month in the home, school and public settings. {{CHILD-NAME}}’s low frustration tolerance causes impairment in {{PRONOUN-2}} functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

# Tic Disorders

## Motor

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed the presence of involuntary and repetitive motor movements for {{CHILD-NAME}}. Specifically, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported {{CHILD-NAME}} occasionally/frequently exhibits uncontrollable eye blinking, shoulder shrugging, head tilting, or other parts of {{PRONOUN-2}} body moving unexpectedly when {{PRONOUN-0}} did not want them to. These behaviors have been present since age {{!XX}} and occur {{!XX}}  times per day/week/month/year. Of note, {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated that {{CHILD-NAME}} most often experiences tics when NOTE TRIGGER (I.E., TEST ANXIETY) IF APPLICABLE . {{CHILD-NAME}} and {{PARENT-NAME}} rated {{CHILD-NAME}}’s distress related to {{PRONOUN-2}} motor tics as mild/moderate/severe . {{PARENT-NAME}} reports these symptoms for {{CHILD-NAME}} {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in the school, home, and social settings. {{PARENT-NAME}} denied the presence of a medical condition or usage of medications that may cause these involuntary movements.

## Verbal

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed the presence of involuntary vocal tics for {{CHILD-NAME}}. Specifically, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported {{CHILD-NAME}} occasionally/frequently exhibits uncontrollable sniffing/coughing/throat clearing, snorting/grunting, repeat {{PRONOUN-2}} own words, repeat others speech. These behaviors have been present since age {{!XX}} and occur {{!XX}} times per day/week/month/year. Of note, {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated that {{CHILD-NAME}} most often experiences tics when NOTE TRIGGER (I.E., TEST ANXIETY) IF APPLICABLE . {{PARENT-NAME}} denied the presence of a medical condition or usage of medications that may cause these involuntary sounds.

## Past Tics with Suspected PANDAS:

{{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed the presence of past involuntary and repetitive motor movements for {{CHILD-NAME}}. Specifically, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported observing {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibit uncontrollable eye blinking. This behavior had a sudden onset at age X but has since remitted. In addition, {{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed the presence of past involuntary vocal tics. Specifically, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported observing {{CHILD-NAME}} exhibit throat clearing. This behavior had a gradual onset at age X but has since remitted. Notably, {{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} first exhibited these behaviors during times of illness (i.e., with an onset after a positive Strep test) and remitting within two to three months later, as described above.

# Trauma and Stressor (Not PTSD)

{{PARENT-NAME}} reported that {{CHILD-NAME}} experienced EVENT. Specifically, DESCRIBE EVENT. Since these events, {{PARENT-NAME}} and {{CHILD-NAME}} denied that {{CHILD-NAME}} tries not to think about the event that happened, has gotten very upset when {{PRONOUN-0}} thought about the event that happened, or has nightmares. {{PARENT-NAME}} endorsed/denied any significant or impairing changes in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s behavior or mood after this experience.

# Trichotillomania (Hair Pulling)

{{PARENT-NAME}} reports that {{CHILD-NAME}} frequently/often/occasionally/rarely pulls the hair from {{PRONOUN-2}} head, eye brows, arms, and pubic region, frequently/often/occasionally/rarely resulting in noticeable hair loss and pleasure/gratification/relief when pulling out {{PRONOUN-2}} hair. {{PARENT-NAME}} indicated {{CHILD-NAME}} has been asked by others to stop, and {{PRONOUN-0}} will cease briefly, but shortly reengages in this behavior. These behaviors become more frequent when {{CHILD-NAME}} feels stressed or anxious. These symptoms occur approximately {{!XX}} times per day/week/month, have been present since age {{!XX}}, and {{!cause/do not cause}} impairment in {{CHILD-NAME}}’s functioning with family, with friends, at school, in after school activities, and in (fill in other places or times).

